# web-fundamentals
  Often we take the accessibility of the information we gather on the world wide web for granted. For starters, there is a difference between the Web and the Internet. While the web runs on the internet, they are two different things. The internet is a network of computers. For instance when you send any instant messaging or email, the internet is sending the words you write. The Web however, is where a collection of text pages and media files such as video, photographs and music are stored. The interesting thing about a web page however, is how everything is connected together. 

  Now let’s take a closer look at what happens when you visit a webpage. Let’s begin with understanding HTTP and HTML, the system and language used to make a webpage function. HTTP stands for HyperText Transfer Protocol, which is the place where two computers transfer information and communicate with one another. One computer serves as the client that runs a web browser, while the other computer is a server, that runs a web server. The browser sends requests of things it wants from the other computer, and the server responds if it finds the things the browser wants. The conversation between the two allows for each computer to swap files through the internet. 


  When you first go to a web page, at the top of the screen is a webpage with a URL. A URL is the Universal Resource Locator or the page’s address. Within the URL of a page are several components. At the beginning of any URL “http.//” means any computer can go to the webpage using the standard HTTP processing. At the end of any URL is it’s file name, whether that be for example; html, jpeg or png. 
The website itself can be ran several ways. First off, someone has to host your site. The site can then be built from raw HTML, which insinuates that you code as you go. There are pre-designed HTML templates at one’s disposal as well. But you also have the option to use a content-management system (CMS) such as Wordpress or Squarespace. 
